PREFACE.

Tm: text of this edition is based on that of Ribbeck, with
certain modifications; on which see Introd. ΙΙΙ, pp. xlvii-liv.

In writing the commentary I have kept before me the editions
of Forbiger, Gossrau (on the Aeneid only), Conington, and
Kennedy: and have referred, as occasion demanded, to other
authorities. Wherever their ‘ipsissima verba’ are reproduced,
the obligation is specially acknowledged: but 1 would here
express once for all my debt to their accumulated stores of
Virgilian learning.

These commentaries are too well known to need further
description or commendation; and, in their combined results,
too exhaustive to leave room for saying much that is new in
Virgilian criticism. The very copiousness‚ however, of such a
commentary as Professor Conington’s may oppress a student
with the feeling of embarras de rz‘chesses 2· while Dr. Kennedy,
on the other hand—valuable as are his Appendices on Virgilian
Geography, Mythology, Prosody, and Syntax—is in his com-
mentary only too chary of his learning. My aim has been to
provide a commentary, which, however inferior to either of
these in quality, may supply a want that my experience as a
college tutor has shown to exist—the want of something inter-
mediate between them in quantity. I do not pretend to rival
Conington: and had Dr. Kennedy's commentary been fuller
and more continuous‚ mine need not have been written.

It often happens that the shortest and simplest way of ex-

Δ plaining a passage is to translate it; and Ι have availed myself

